>>JIM MYERS: I've believed in
sasquatch since I was a child.
Once into it, it
kind of grabs you.
>>GEORGE NOORY: You
were obsessed with it.
>>MYERS: I was obsessed.
>>NOORY: Extraterrestrial,
something dimensional.
What does your gut tell you?
>>MYERS: I have
three now stories
of people who say that they
were healed by a sasquatch.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MYERS: Something grabbed
my bed and shook it.
And I yelled, and I
had something pushing
on the outside of the tent.
If I'd had more guts, I
would have put my hand--
>>NOORY: Pushed back.
>>MYERS: --and pushed
back, but I was too afraid.
>>NOORY: Are you convinced
beyond a shadow of a doubt--
>>MYERS: 100%
>>NOORY: --that
something's going on?
>>MYERS: 100%.
>>NOORY: Well, thanks for
joining us on "Beyond Belief."
And we've got one of
those cliffhanger shows
for you tonight.
Jim Myers is with us.
An avid outdoorsman, he enjoys
hunting, fishing, hiking,
and camping, and all those
great things that go with that.
But for the past eight
years, why don't we
add to that list a sasquatch
researcher and museum curator?
Jim, welcome to the program.
>>MYERS: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in sasquatch research?
>>MYERS: It's quite
a story, actually.
I've believed in Sasquatch
since I was a child.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MYERS: Ever since the movie
"The Legend of Boggy Creek"
was made in the '70s.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MYERS: But it's only
since we moved to Colorado
in about 2009.
Two things happened
that were key.
I own a store.
And as I was
renovating the store,
I met my first
bigfoot eyewitness.
And she was a local to Bailey,
a very credible person.
And I took her to coffee.
We talked about her experience.
She convinced me.
And then the show "Finding
Bigfoot" from Animal Planet
came and did an
episode in Bailey.
And I went to that showing
and talked to the actors.
And that kind of launched me
into this kind of unexpectedly
on my side.
But once into it, it
kind of grabs you,
and I couldn't get away.
>>NOORY: You were
obsessed with it.
>>MYERS: I was obsessed.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
seen a bigfoot yourself?
>>MYERS: I have seen a
bigfoot one time visually.
>>NOORY: Tell us that story.
>>MYERS: There's a lake
that's a very popular tourist
destination about 13
miles from Bailey.
It's called Wellington Lake.
Big with campers, hikers.
And because it's a hotspot
for bigfoot sightings
and vocalizations, we
were camping there.
We went out early in the
morning to go do some fishing.
Everyone else in the campsite
was asleep as far as I knew.
There's a mountain,
a rock mountain,
at one end of the lake
called the Castle.
And the rocks kind of
come around the sides
of the lake a little ways.
And I was fishing.
I fly fish.
I had just cast, and I
was just looking around.
And I looked up to my right.
And there's a big rock
outcropping maybe 200 yards
away.
And there was something
standing up there looking down.
I could tell it was very large.
It was uniform in color.
And of course, right at that
moment, as fate would have it,
a fish pulled on my line.
So I turned to look at the
fish, and I looked back.
And it was gone.
>>NOORY: Gone that quickly.
>>MYERS: That quickly.
>>NOORY: What did it--
did it seem human?
>>MYERS: It did not--
it wasn't a human.
I could tell that.
But it was human-like, and
it was standing on two legs,
looking down from the rock.
I didn't get the sense
it was looking at me.
It was just looking
downwards towards the lake.
And maybe it saw me, and
that's why it disappeared.
I don't know.
But I learned a lesson.
Never take your eyes off of
a sasquatch if you see one.
>>NOORY: They're that quick.
>>MYERS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I had a caller on my
radio show, "Coast to Coast
AM," several years ago.
And the person was fishing
on the side of a creek,
much like you were.
And he caught two trout.
And he's holding
up these two trout.
He looks up, and
there's a bigfoot
looking at him 10 feet away.
>>MYERS: Wow.
>>NOORY: Staring at
him and the trout.
Now, this guy's scared to death.
>>MYERS: Of course.
>>NOORY: He hands the trout
to the bigfoot, both of them.
Bigfoot takes them, looks at
the guy, gives him one back.
>>MYERS: That's
quite an experience.
>>NOORY: Now, if that
was a true story, that
tells you that they have
some kind of thought process,
doesn't it?
>>MYERS: I believe they do.
Yes.
I would say their
intelligence rivals ours,
or even surpasses
ours in some areas.
>>NOORY: How many people
are seeing or sighting
these bigfoot stories?
>>MYERS: It's hard
to say, George.
I would-- the best
estimate that I
could give based on a number
of different databases
that are out there is 50,000
to 60,000 sightings just
in this country.
>>NOORY: Wow!
Well, there have been
so many encounters--
>>MYERS: Yes.
>>NOORY: --that you created the
Sasquatch Encounter Museum--
>>MYERS: Yes.
>>NOORY: --in Bailey, Colorado.
>>MYERS: Correct.
>>NOORY: Let's look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>MYERS: So we're about
to enter the inner sanctum
of the Sasquatch Outpost, which
is the Sasquatch Encounter
Discovery Museum.
So if you come with
me, we'll head on in.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is a loop of recordings
from around the country
of sasquatch vocalizations,
different types,
as you can hear them laughing,
talking, howling, whooping.
I just wanted to give
people some idea of what
does a sasquatch sound like.
And as you can hear,
they actually talk.
They have their own language.
This is something that we
found back in about 2013.
I found a set of elk tracks
where the elk was actually
running.
And it was defecating as it ran,
which I thought was unusual.
I followed the
tracks until I came
upon this imprint of an
elk's body in the snow,
like an elk stamp.
It's like it was running, and it
hit the snow and stopped dead.
And I could see the legs.
I could see the neck, the head.
This elk did not move
once it hit the snow.
Then we noticed
another set of tracks
coming from a different
direction that
were 10 to 12 feet
apart with every stride.
And the two sets of tracks
converged right here
where this elk was in the snow.
And then the big
tracks just carried on.
And our assumption is this
elk was somehow knocked down
by a sasquatch, which then
picked it up, and carried it
off, which is probably 400
or 500 pounds dead weight.
Given that there were no elk
tracks leaving this location,
the only explanation
we could come up with
is that it was picked
up and carried off.
The easiest way to know if
sasquatch is active in an area
is looking for what
they do with trees.
And tree breaks is the most
common one that we find,
where trees are broken
and left hanging always
the same way, or
tree arches, which
are trees that are bent over,
and then stuck in the ground
or stuck under another tree
to keep this arch shape.
And sometimes I've seen these
up to 15 feet high coming down,
and then stuck in the
ground maybe a foot
to keep that tree bent.
These are classic signs.
And I find them everywhere
I go in Colorado.
So I have a few examples of
what we're talking about when
it comes to tree breaks.
This is a classic one,
where it's twisted and bent.
This one is unusual.
We found this near
the Wigwam trail.
And this tree was green
when it was found.
And it had been twisted
off like a bottle cap.
The amount of strength it would
take in the grip of a hand
to twist this off, and then
drop it is unbelievable.
This is a map that we've had
since we started the museum.
And every pin on
here is a story,
and every story was told
to myself or my wife.
The red ones are actual visual
sightings of a sasquatch.
The yellow ones have to do with
some kind of a tree structure
like we spoke about.
Black are footprints.
Green is some kind
of a vocalization.
And blue is an object
that was thrown at someone
while they were out hiking.
So this is the whole state.
This is Bailey right here.
But there were so many
sightings in Bailey
I had to blow it up and create a
second map just of the activity
around here.
So you can see.
I think there's over
300 pins on the map.
And again, this
is just people who
have talked to me
about their sightings.
So imagine how many
other people have
seen a sasquatch in Colorado.
>>NOORY: It sounds like
an exciting museum.
>>MYERS: Well, I hope so.
>>NOORY: And it's only
an hour away from where
we're taping right now.
>>MYERS: Correct.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
Why do you think there's
so many sightings
in the Bailey, Colorado area?
>>MYERS: You know,
I'm not convinced
that there's more sightings
in Bailey than anywhere else.
I think the fact that our
store and museum are in Bailey
draws people who've seen them
to come and tell their story.
But I'm convinced if my
store was based anywhere
in the Rockies, there would be
that many sightings around it.
>>NOORY: There would?
>>MYERS: It's just
there's that many.
>>NOORY: I mean, how many
little dot buttons did you
have up there?
>>MYERS: Around 300.
>>NOORY: That's a lot.
>>MYERS: It is.
>>NOORY: For a
geographical area.
>>MYERS: They're not
all around Bailey.
It's the whole
state of Colorado.
But those are people
who have come.
To my knowledge,
we're the only people
they've ever told
their story to.
>>NOORY: Are the
sightings seasonal?
>>MYERS: Well, in
the winter people
aren't in the woods as much.
And so we typically get far more
in spring, summer, and fall.
But they're still
active in the winter.
We've found tracks.
We've found other
signs that they're
out there moving around.
But there's just not
people to see them.
>>NOORY: Looking at
the illustrations--
and we've seen many
over the years--
the creature looks like
it could be an ape,
but it's more upright,
more human-looking.
Do you think it's like that
missing bridge, that link?
>>MYERS: I've been
asked that before.
And people have
asked me is sasquatch
a descendant of gigantopithecus,
which was an extinct great ape.
Personally, I don't think so.
And the reason I
don't think so is
there's no fossil record
of sasquatch, for one.
But the other thing is that
they are so human-like.
They're bipedal, their
intelligence level.
>>NOORY: They reason.
>>MYERS: They reason.
They have a language that's
very similar to our language.
I don't think an
extinct ape had that.
And so they're far
more human than not
is why I believe that
they're not an extinct--
a relative of an
extinct great ape.
>>NOORY: There have been some
DNA studies on hair samples
and things like that, and they
do show strange anomalies here,
don't they?
>>MYERS: They do.
And it actually shows
that sasquatch is probably
a human hybrid, that they are
part human and part unknown.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: The unknown means
in the genome database
it doesn't appear.
It's not there.
>>NOORY: I have heard, Jim, that
it's an Earth-based creature,
like you just said,
extraterrestrial, something
dimensional.
I think these theories come
out from all over the place.
What does your gut tell you?
>>MYERS: If you had asked
me that 10 years ago, I
would have said, they're
only a flesh and blood
creature of some kind.
But I've had so many experiences
and know personally so
many people who've
had experiences,
such as a sasquatch disappearing
in front of their eyes,
literally disappearing, or
seeing something cloaked
in the woods where you can
see it, but it's not there,
that I am convinced
that they do not
exist only in this dimension.
They go somewhere else.
I couldn't tell
you where that is.
But I don't think
they're only physical.
I think there's more to them
than purely what we can see.
>>NOORY: ET?
>>MYERS: Possibly.
I mean, are they-- if
they're a human hybrid,
when did that mix happen--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: --is the question.
>>NOORY: And were they dumped
here or do they come and go?
>>MYERS: Correct.
>>NOORY: Who knows?
What is the Sasquatch Outpost?
>>MYERS: So the
Sasquatch Outpost
is both a store, where we
sell sasquatch souvenirs,
and an experience, the
Sasquatch Encounter.
And I try to separate those
by saying the store is where
we have fun with sasquatch.
We have lots of funny
T-shirts and mugs.
But once you enter the Sasquatch
Encounter, it's all business.
I'm not making fun.
I'm trying to educate people
and describe for them what
we believe sasquatch is.
>>NOORY: Well, let's look
at more with your Encounter
Museum, and see some of the
things that are going on there.
>>MYERS: OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We have a lot of plaster
casts in the museum
from different places
in the country.
But this one I wanted to
talk about, because this
is one of the
castings from the 1967
filming of the Patterson-Gimlin
film of sasquatch,
the most famous footage to date.
And this is one of
Patty's footprints
that was taken and
cast in the sand
that she had walked through.
So you can see the
size of the footprint.
The estimate is that she was 7
feet 6 inches tall and weighed
somewhere in the realm
of 900 pounds based
on the depth of her
track in the sand
compared to humans who had
walked in the same sand.
And of all the
castings I have, this
is probably the most famous.
I wanted to show you
something kind of unique.
This is a knuckle
print of a sasquatch
that was cast by Paul Freeman
in 1982 in Washington.
And you can see the size.
This is a left-hand knuckle.
Obviously, it was in the mud.
But just look at
the size of that
compared to my hand,
the enormous hands
that sasquatch have.
And you can see detail
on the top of the bones
and the top of the knuckles.
It's just a unique cast that
I've never seen anywhere else.
Now, something that
a lot of people
don't realize about
sasquatch is that
every Native American tribe
that I have encountered
has their own name for sasquatch
and their own tradition
about sasquatch.
To me this is one of the
most compelling proofs
that they exist.
Otherwise, why would every
Native American tribe
believe in them,
talk about them,
have an oral
tradition about them?
And the interesting
thing is every name
they give to sasquatch is a
name of people, not animals.
And so most Native
Americans would
say that sasquatch
is another tribe.
They're just a different
kind of people than we are.
Again, this is one of the
most compelling proofs,
in my opinion, for the
existence of sasquatch.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
And those feet were huge.
>>MYERS: They are huge.
18 to 20 inches at
times, maybe longer.
>>NOORY: And it's a female.
Can you imagine what
Jimmy Choo or Steve
Madden would be doing to
make a shoe for that person?
Oh, it's huge.
>>MYERS: Yeah.
And they're wide.
They're long, and
they're very wide.
>>NOORY: And that's from
the Patterson-Gimlin film,
isn't it?
>>MYERS: That
casting was actually
made a few days before.
We assume it was from Patty, but
it was made in the same area--
taken in the same area.
>>NOORY: How could you
tell it's a female?
>>MYERS: She had breasts.
The breasts bounced
as she walked.
I have a good friend who's
a plastic surgeon who has
studied that film at length.
And he says he can tell not only
that it's a female, that she
was middle-aged, she'd
already had offspring
based on the fat deposits on
her body, and things like that.
But she-- the breasts are
the most obvious indicator
that she was a female.
>>NOORY: Why isn't
science doing more
of a job to try to uncover
this incredible mystery?
>>MYERS: That is the
question of the hour, George.
And I don't know.
And we talk about that
often among researchers.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MYERS: Why does
science have such a bias
against acknowledging the
existence of sasquatch
with all the evidence
that's out there?
>>NOORY: There's nothing formal.
There's never been a
formal investigation,
has there, by science?
>>MYERS: Well, I mean, if you
take aside the Sasquatch Genome
Project, which
was, in my opinion,
very scientifically done,
no, not that I'm aware of.
Now, that doesn't mean that
there haven't been studies
by the government that
we're just not aware of.
But I really don't know.
I don't know what
could be the goal
of hiding that information.
>>NOORY: What are
they afraid of?
>>MYERS: You know, unless they
know something about sasquatch
that we don't know.
For instance, is
sasquatch somehow related
to disappearing people
in this country?
>>NOORY: The great David
Paulides, of course,
has uncovered stories of
people disappearing in parks.
But as David and I
have talked about,
if it were an animal or a
sasquatch grabbing people,
somebody would be
screaming, whether it was
the being or the individual.
>>MYERS: Right.
>>NOORY: Believe me.
Jim, if you were in the
woods and you got attacked,
you're not going to go quietly.
>>MYERS: No.
No.
>>NOORY: And they're
not hearing that.
>>MYERS: Right.
>>NOORY: So let's rule
that out for a moment,
that sasquatch is abducting
people and stuff like that.
>>MYERS: Right.
>>NOORY: Are bodies of
humans showing up anywhere
in the woods eaten or
anything like that?
>>MYERS: I mean, if
you go back in history
there are stories
of that happening.
And even the Native Americans
talk about in their history
a sasquatch kidnapping
children and their women.
What they did with them,
I'm not sure is known.
But there are anecdotal
stories about sasquatch taking,
and killing, and eating people.
Now, obviously,
the vast majority
of encounters that I'm
aware of are very brief.
The person will
see the sasquatch,
and then they're gone.
There's no violence involved.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: But there
are stories that
involve violence and the person
surviving that encounter.
>>NOORY: So there some.
>>MYERS: Mhm.
>>NOORY: There are some.
My encounter when I was
younger to this creature
started when I
would read stories
about the abominable
snowman in the Himalayas.
Is there a similarity here
between these creatures?
>>MYERS: I believe
it's the same creature.
I think it's just
where they're located.
And so the yeti, I
don't believe is white.
I believe they're
brown, or reddish brown,
very similar to our
bigfoot or sasquatch.
And every continent virtually
has a version of the sasquatch.
They just go by different
names, the almas in Russia,
the yeren in China,
and so forth.
>>NOORY: You had asked me
other bigfoot researchers
that I've talked to.
One was Rhettman Mullis, who
is a great researcher who
talked about DNA testing.
>>MYERS: Mhm.
>>NOORY: What do you think
we're talking about here?
What is this creature?
>>RHETTMAN MULLIS: My thinking
has evolved over the years.
Back in the '90s I worked
with Dr. Grover Krantz out
of Washington State University.
And I used to collect
evidence for him.
And he had the
gigantopithecus theory.
So I kind of--
I did hold out for a while.
>>NOORY: Which is an
ape-like creature.
>>MULLIS: It's an extinct ape.
But over time when
I started learning
more about the indigenous
tribes lore of them
mating with human
females, that made
me realize they had to be
closer to humans genetically.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MULLIS: So I evolved that--
>>NOORY: For it to work, right?
>>MULLIS: Yeah, exactly.
So I evolved that thinking,
and said, well, it can't--
in my mind, it can't
be gigantopithecus.
It has to be some
other form of closer
relic or sub-genus human.
And that's what we're
trying to figure out
now with all this DNA
research that we're doing.
>>NOORY: What do you think
about that DNA research?
>>MYERS: I think there needs
to be more DNA research.
I think there-- we'll
learn more about sasquatch.
And I believe there are ways
that people can get samples
of hair, even blood, that
can lend a lot of evidence
to what they are.
Are they human hybrid or
are they something else?
You know, he mentioned
interbreeding with sasquatch,
which I think is in the
realm of possibility.
I think their DNA could
be close enough to ours
that that could produce
viable offspring.
In fact, there are stories
out of Russia from the '50s,
'40s, '50s, I believe,
where a female sasquatch
was captured, and then bred
with humans and had offspring
that were viable.
>>NOORY: What did
they look like?
>>MYERS: They looked as--
initially, looked
like hairy humans.
The further they
got away genetically
from that first pairing, they
looked less like a sasquatch.
But there's not a lot of
photographic evidence.
And I don't know how
much I believe everything
that I've read about that.
>>NOORY: Right.
Right.
>>MYERS: But Jacko,
I think, is the name
they gave to that sasquatch.
>>NOORY: And it
must still be alive?
>>MYERS: No.
This was-- as I said,
it was 50, 60 years ago.
>>NOORY: They don't
live that long?
>>MYERS: That's a good question.
We don't know, actually.
There have been
habituations where
people have lived in proximity
to sasquatch over 50 years
and have watched them grow and
age to where the sasquatch was
completely gray.
So one would tend to think
that they live at least as
long as we do, probably longer.
But I don't get the idea that
they live 200 years or more.
Their life span is roughly
similar to ours, I would think.
>>NOORY: Can you imagine,
Jim, people driving down
a rural road at night,
and across the road
walks a bigfoot.
It's got to be one of the most
frightening and awe-inspiring
scenes you could come across.
>>MYERS: The word road is
the most common word in all
the sasquatch sighting reports.
>>NOORY: Is it?
>>MYERS: So more people
see them crossing the road
than any other way.
>>NOORY: Lumbering,
just walking?
>>MYERS: No, they
tend to go quickly.
And here's the
funny thing, George.
>>NOORY: Like a deer?
>>MYERS: I've heard of them
running faster than a deer,
but sometimes it's
just stepping.
But their stride is so huge.
It takes three
steps, and they're
across a typical
two-lane highway.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: But they typically
don't look at the vehicle.
And because I believe
their level of intelligence
is extremely high, my
question is, why did they
cross in front of the vehicle?
They could wait 5 seconds
and be in darkness.
>>NOORY: And the
vehicle goes by.
Sure.
>>MYERS: And I'm convinced that
they do it because they want
to be seen by that vehicle.
>>NOORY: That's an
intelligence then.
>>MYERS: Sure.
>>NOORY: That is
interesting, to be sure.
As we tape, it's 0 degrees
here in Louisville, Colorado.
0 degrees.
These creatures are living
outside, or in caves,
or in little huts
that they might make.
How can they survive that?
That's cold!
>>MYERS: That's very cold.
That's very cold.
>>NOORY: I don't
care where you are.
That's cold.
>>MYERS: Although, elk,
and deer, and bears
all survive the same cold.
>>NOORY: And squirrels.
>>MYERS: Squirrels.
>>NOORY: And things like that.
>>MYERS: So sasquatch,
being more intelligent
than those animals, has to have
figured out ways to survive it.
Now, I think they
probably-- if they're
living at high
altitude, they probably
descend, like the
other game does.
And it would be very
difficult for them
to move in 2 to 3 feet of snow,
let alone their juveniles.
I would think they
wouldn't want to do that.
So I would think they
move down in elevation.
But again, if they're
not merely physical,
if they have more than--
if they're multi-dimensional,
they could leave and go
to someplace else--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MYERS: --when
it's cold like this.
>>NOORY: If you
polled 100 people,
what percent would say
they believe in bigfoot?
>>MYERS: That's
a great question.
I think more people believe
than we would give credit to.
But I would say probably
15% to 20% of the population
believe to some degree that
bigfoot could be out there.
>>NOORY: Are you convinced
beyond a shadow of a doubt--
>>MYERS: 100%.
>>NOORY: --that something's
going on out there?
>>MYERS: 100%.
>>NOORY: Whatever it is.
What's your gut tell you?
>>MYERS: My gut tells me that
there are far more of them than
we realize, that--
>>NOORY: All over the country.
>>MYERS: All over the
country, and every state,
and around the world.
>>NOORY: Canada?
>>MYERS: Canada, absolutely.
Even Mexico.
The only continent I've never
heard of sightings is Africa.
I don't know why.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MYERS: But I believe
that they are real.
I believe that they--
>>NOORY: So they're getting this
in Russia and everything else?
>>MYERS: Russia, China,
Australia, Southeast Asia
all have a name and a tradition
of a hairy bipedal creature.
>>NOORY: But we don't
have one to look at?
>>MYERS: Well, do we?
I don't know.
I'm convinced that
we probably do.
We, being the authorities,
or our government
probably has a body, maybe
even a live specimen.
There's stories after
the Mount St. Helens
eruption of them gathering
bodies of sasquatch,
piling them up, and even
having human sasquatch
talking with each
other as though someone
had learned to speak sasquatch,
and was talking with them.
And eyewitnesses reporting this.
Now, take those for
what they're worth.
I don't know if those
are true stories or not.
But enough of those stories,
and you begin to wonder, OK,
is it possible?
>>NOORY: Right.
Is there anything biblical about
bigfoot other than the Nephilim
giants?
>>MYERS: That's the
one biblical reference
that people would
refer to is that they
could be the product of men
and fallen angels reproducing.
I'm not sure what I think
about that, to be honest.
But you know, who's
an expert on bigfoot?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: I'm certainly not
an expert, so I would say,
it's possible.
It's possible.
>>NOORY: Why are
they in the woods?
If they have any
intelligence, why haven't they
developed to the
point where they've
built houses, and
structures, and buildings?
>>MYERS: It's a great question.
And I get asked
that question a lot.
Now, to me--
>>NOORY: They're
like cave people.
>>MYERS: --that
question presupposes
that building houses
and building structures
is the equivalent
of intelligence.
Now, we have to build
houses because we
would die without shelter.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MYERS: We have to
wear thick clothing.
Sasquatch doesn't.
So if we did not need the
shelter and the clothing
that we do, would we build it?
Would we build it?
So to me, the ability
to construct versus not
does not necessarily
correlate intelligence.
I believe that they
are highly intelligent.
They don't need what we need
to survive in the woods.
>>NOORY: Has anybody
ever found anything
that would look like they built
a boat or anything like that?
>>MYERS: No.
There have been many
structures, tipi structures,
nests that are fairly
elaborate with pine boughs
and an entrance,
certainly caves.
But no, to my understanding--
and I've talked to
hundreds of researchers--
I don't believe anything
like that has been found.
>>NOORY: What is the
bigfoot community like, Jim?
>>MYERS: It's an
interesting community.
It's a community
that I would say
is divided between those who
would see sasquatch as an ape,
or a descendant
of gigantopithecus
versus those who would see
them more as a hominid,
as a human hybrid.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: And we all attend
the same conferences.
We all give talks, et cetera.
But these two
groups don't agree.
And often it can be quite
a lot of territorialism
within the community.
I think if everyone who
is a bigfoot researcher
could share the
knowledge that we have,
we would be far further down
the road in our research
than we are.
>>NOORY: Now, some people
have said that bigfoot merely
looks like it disappears
in the flash of an eye,
almost like your situation,
where you, of course, turned
your head, and it was gone.
But some people think
that the thing just
has an ability to disappear.
What do you think?
>>MYERS: I have two personal
friends and a secondhand report
that I don't doubt who have
actually seen them disappear
in front of their eyes.
And I trust these
people implicitly.
They're good friends who I have
no reason to think would lie.
And they were watching them, and
they literally dematerialized
in front of their eyes.
>>NOORY: This would mean
that it could be dimensional.
>>MYERS: That's what
my assumption would be.
>>NOORY: Bizarre.
>>MYERS: The question is,
when they dematerialize
or disappear, did
they go somewhere,
or did they just go invisible
to the eyes of that person?
Meaning they're still there.
>>NOORY: Like they
cloaked themselves.
>>MYERS: But they cloaked.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: What about healings?
Do you have any mystical
healing stories?
>>MYERS: I do.
I have two stories, or
three now, actually,
of people who
would say that they
were healed by a sasquatch.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MYERS: That is
their conclusion.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MYERS: And healed of terminal
illnesses in some case,
and stayed healed.
>>NOORY: Like something
caring, benevolent.
>>MYERS: It never came--
that illness never came
back after that experience.
>>NOORY: Jack Cary
was a researcher,
and he appeared on Gaia's
program "Open Minds"
to talk about the possibility
that bigfoot had the ability
to paralyze its victims,
sometimes humans.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: My
understanding is they have
very--
they're very capable in
terms of their telepathy
and their extrasensory
awareness.
>>JACK CARY: Absolutely.
Now, we do have a lot
of what I consider
circumstantial evidence
that these creatures are
able to emit ELF wave
frequencies, extremely
low frequencies, much
like an elephant would
communicate long distance.
These creatures also
have that ability.
With these creatures,
it appears as
though they're able to use this
ability to even paralyze prey.
Now, we've had many--
>>MEREDITH: Very interesting.
>>CARY: Yeah.
We've had many credible
hunters tell us, oh, I
had this deer in my sights.
I'm getting ready
to pull the trigger.
All of a sudden, I see
this-- this deer just freezes
>>MEREDITH: Yeah.
>>CARY: It's just frozen
solid, and then the bushes
begin to rustle.
And this big, giant, hairy
man stepped out of the bushes
and picked this deer up,
put it over his shoulder,
and walked off.
And they're white as a ghost.
They can't believe what
they've seen, you know?
>>MEREDITH: Of course.
>>CARY: And it's in
those different scenes,
those different tales
that we're being
told that we're suspecting.
Now, some-- we've also
had people tell us, well,
they were also paralyzed by
one of them, some kind of--
>>MEREDITH: Through these
same ELF frequencies.
>>CARY: The creatures
approached--
these creatures will do--
freeze them, approach them
in a campsite, and
then just stroll off.
>>MEREDITH: And has there been
any indication that there was
ever harassment or violence
exhibited toward the human
species by them, or are they
generally more living within
whatever is needed for their own
survival in terms of working--
consuming animals, for example?
>>CARY: Oh, absolutely.
If they could be
left totally alone,
that would be their preference.
That's why they are so elusive.
>>MEREDITH: Exactly.
>>CARY: They can hear
you from a mile away,
smell you from two miles away--
--see you from three,
you know what I mean?
And a creature like
that, if it doesn't
want to be found or seen, you're
not going to find it or see it.
>>MEREDITH: And that's smart.
I mean, for their own
survival, they certainly
understand man is an
aggressive species.
>>CARY: Right.
And yet they have
this human DNA.
So what we suspect is that this
group, this lineage of humanity
has chosen this path.
They've chosen to
separate themselves
from the technological world.
>>MEREDITH: I
believe that is true.
>>CARY: They are living in
their own harmonious way
with their existence.
>>NOORY: Has anybody
reported, Jim,
that they've found
remnants of where
a bigfoot might be living,
a campfire, or anything
like that?
>>MYERS: Well, people have
found evidence of them--
what they think is
sasquatch living in caves,
having brought in
brush and things
to sleep on to make
it more comfortable.
I've been to a cave that had
green leaves that did not--
were not from that cave,
that were brought in,
and an impression
of a large body
having been lying
on those leaves.
It could have been
something else,
but those leaves were
brought in by something.
So yes, people have
found evidence.
To my knowledge, no
one's found any bones.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MYERS: Things like that.
>>NOORY: Of course, we
don't find many deer bones
in the woods.
>>MYERS: No.
>>NOORY: Or bear, or
anything like that either.
>>MYERS: And I've
asked hunters who've
hunted their entire lives, and
I've hunted most of my life,
how many large predator
carcasses they've found.
And I've only met
one who's found
a bear or a mountain lion that
was already dead in the woods.
Nature's very efficient.
>>NOORY: It sure is.
>>MYERS: Even for a large
creature like a bear.
>>NOORY: Are there any UFO
reports near bigfoot sightings?
>>MYERS: Yes.
And there seems to be a
correlation between those two,
at least circumstantially.
So what's more common is
bigfoot being accompanied
by orbs in the woods,
lights that don't
have any origin from outside.
It's not a human source.
That's fairly common.
But having a UFO
sighting and a bigfoot
sighting very close to one
another in timing and proximity
is not uncommon.
And so you could draw the
conclusion that maybe they
came out of that
UFO, or dropped off,
or something to that effect.
>>NOORY: What does your
family say about this?
>>MYERS: I think most of
my family think I'm crazy.
I think they humor me.
But none of them have been
out researching with me.
>>NOORY: Or have seen anything.
>>MYERS: Or have
seen anything, no.
>>NOORY: I would guess
that if one has a sighting,
it changes your perspective
pretty darn fast.
>>MYERS: It does.
And it tends to change
some people's lives,
I mean, to the point
where they never either--
hunters who have
encountered them never
go hunting again, because
it frightened them so badly.
>>NOORY: They're scared of them.
Wow.
>>MYERS: Or people who've seen
them whenever they go out,
they look at the woods
in a different way.
They're looking for different
things than they used to.
>>NOORY: You've heard stories
where families of bigfoot
would throw rocks at a
house and stuff like that,
almost like they're
mischief makers.
>>MYERS: I've had them
throw things at me
more than once in
the woods at night.
And there could be
no other explanation
because nothing else
has a thumb to throw.
And I've had-- and
when they throw,
they throw extremely hard.
And so I've never
been hit, but I've
had them hit trees very close to
me with an extremely loud crack
noise.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MYERS: And had they
hit me in the head,
I would probably be dead.
>>NOORY: That's kind of scary.
>>MYERS: It is.
It is.
But I'm realizing that because
they have the potential
to do harm and don't, that
I'm not so afraid when I go
in the woods as I used to be.
I mean, there's times when
you have moments of fear.
But I'm learning to trust them
and to trust their trust of us,
I guess, is the
best way to put it.
>>NOORY: You've got some
sounds at the museum
of what bigfoot might be.
What does that
sound like to you?
>>MYERS: Well,
they're so diverse.
>>NOORY: Is it a roar?
>>MYERS: It sounds
like people many times.
When they speak, it sounds
like people talking.
It's an actual language.
And I've heard that
numerous times.
You can pick out words
that you can't under--
>>NOORY: So not like a dog
bark or anything like that?
>>MYERS: I've heard them
make barks like a dog.
I've heard them howl.
I've heard them laugh like
we laugh, strange laughter.
>>NOORY: Like a hyena?
>>MYERS: No, like a human
laugh, but in a bizarre way.
And so they yell,
like humans do.
But the volume they can
create is phenomenal.
I mean, a human could never
create that kind of volume
and be heard as far
away as a sasquatch.
>>NOORY: Right.
It could go for what, hundreds
and thousands of feet?
>>MYERS: A mile, 2
miles, I would say.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MYERS: Sometimes, yeah.
>>NOORY: How about singing?
Has anybody heard
them in unison?
>>MYERS: People have heard
singing in the woods.
Now, whether it was a
sasquatch or not, I don't know.
But I've heard more than
one story of someone
reporting a voice
singing in the--
words they couldn't understand,
but definitely singing.
I've had them whistle.
I've been in the woods late
at night, whistling a tune,
and the same tune comes
back to me out of the woods.
>>NOORY: Like an echo.
>>MYERS: Like an echo,
but it was not an echo.
>>NOORY: It wasn't you.
>>MYERS: It was something
whistled that tune back to me.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
been scared out there--
>>MYERS: Many times.
>>NOORY: --for your own safety?
>>MYERS: Yes.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>MYERS: I'm usually
armed when I go out.
My hope is that--
and I've never pulled my
gun out of the holster once.
My hope is that they know my
intent is not to do them harm.
But it's as much
to protect myself
from mountain lions
and other things
as it would be from a sasquatch.
I think if a sasquatch was
intent on doing me harm,
I would not have time to
defend myself, really.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And you know, thank god there
aren't circuses anymore.
>>MYERS: Right.
>>NOORY: Because I
really think they would
try to go after finding one.
>>MYERS: Oh, if
they could find one.
But you know, I
don't know if you
heard the story about the
representative in Oklahoma
who wants to have a
bigfoot hunting season.
>>NOORY: Oh god.
>>MYERS: Or a bigfoot
trapping season.
But I'm convinced--
>>NOORY: Horrible!
>>MYERS: It is.
But I'm convinced that they
will never be able to trap them
because they're too large.
They're too powerful.
We couldn't design a trap that
they could not get out of.
>>NOORY: You've
been out camping.
>>MYERS: I have.
>>NOORY: Sometimes you're
scared, but have you
ever had anything happen
where they rattle you
or anything like that?
>>MYERS: Yeah.
I've been in a tent with another
researcher and had them--
it's funny.
When you're out
squatching, as we call it,
you generally don't want to have
any part of your body touching
the edge of the tent
because that's what
they're going to mess with.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>MYERS: Touch whatever.
>>NOORY: You don't
want them to grab you.
>>MYERS: My bed was touching
the edge of the tent
in this particular situation.
And about 3:00 in the morning
something grabbed my bed
and shook it from the outside.
And I was sitting up at the time
in my sleeping bag, listening,
because I thought I heard
something scratching
on the outside of the tent.
So I'm sitting like this,
and then it grabbed--
something grabbed
my bed and shook it.
And I yelled and
woke my tentmate up.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>MYERS: But that
same weekend I had
something pushing on
the outside of the tent,
almost like they were trying
to figure out what was inside.
If I'd had more guts, I
would have put my hand--
>>NOORY: Pushed back.
>>MYERS: --and pushed back.
But I was too
afraid at the time.
>>NOORY: How do people find
your museum in Bailey, Colorado?
>>MYERS: We're actually
right on Highway 285.
It goes right through Bailey.
It's the main thoroughfare,
other than highway 70.
And we have signs on the highway
that say, Bigfoot Museum.
>>NOORY: I love it.
Jim, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>MYERS: You're welcome.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: These bigfoot
stories are fantastic.
I know that if I were
out camping one day
and saw a bigfoot, I
would become a believer
for the rest of my life.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."